today we're going to be making creamy
cheesy mac and cheese you're watching
these are the ingredients that we're
gonna need to make the mac and cheese
this is a 16 ounce pack of elbow
macaroni the small ones but we're only
going to use half the pack for this
recipe okay this is two and a half
tablespoons of all-purpose flour eight
ounces of processed cheese that brand
happens to be Velveeta but you could use
any brand you like this is a quarter cup
of butter and three cups of whole milk
but you could use 2% 1% or nonfat this
macaroni and cheese is gonna be cooked
on the stovetop and in the oven so let's
move over to the stove we're already
have the water boiling for us to add the
noodles so it took about 10 11 minutes
to bring this water to a boil and it's
my big pot that I'm using here and I put
half of it with water and I brought it
to a boil if you wanted to come to a
boil more quickly you should add some
salt to the water I know that because we
did that in a science project once and
when the kids were little but I didn't
add any salt because you know the cheese
has salt and we're gonna add some salt
to the cheese sauce so I didn't add any
salt to this water and I'm just gonna
measure out half of this pack of the
elbow macaroni and we're gonna stand
here and watch this because you only
want this to cook for about five to six
minutes because we want it to be all
denting while that's cooking though I'm
going to move to the left hand side of
the stove and we're gonna get the cheese
sauce started so I have a smaller pot
over here and I put the fire on just now
on high and I'm gonna take my quarter
cup of butter put it in the pot so that
it can melt and I'll tell you at what
point if we have to put the fire on
medium okay so we're just gonna allow
this to melt in here
so doesn't even take a minute we want to
just kind of add the flour to it you're
gonna mix this around and yes this is a
roux
my fire is too high so I'm gonna turn it
to medium I don't want this to get lumpy
so we're just gonna work this in there
because right now we're gonna go ahead
and add the milk after this is worked in
really well we're gonna add the milk and
remember that's three cups of milk get
the measurement precise on this one okay
because it's gonna need to cook in the
oven for a while and we want this to
come out the right texture so we just
added the milk I'm gonna let this cook
for about two minutes at which point I'm
gonna add the cheese and then I'm gonna
tell you how much longer it has to cook
okay in the meanwhile it's been about
three minutes since I started the
noodles over there
see they're really boiling and after I
put them in like you know kind of use my
um spaghetti server thing here I used
that to just kind of move the noodles
around in the pot because I don't want
them to clump together I mean when I
first started cooking noodles was the
one that kind of mastered me I really
couldn't do noodles they were always
sticky and uncooked and too soft or too
hard or I just couldn't get it right so
and I still don't think I'm a master at
it but I surely know how to time it so
this is about three minutes that this
been cooking and like I said we don't
want it to go too long cause it's gonna
bake for a half-hour in the oven okay so
it's gonna be doing some more cooking so
let's move back over here to my cheese
sauce and the fire is too low now so I'm
gonna move it back from medium to high I
just kind of turn it down just knowing I
didn't want to route a burn so I turn it
to high cuz we want this to start really
boiling here and then we're gonna add
the cheese in a little bit so let me
give it a couple more minutes alright it
took about three minutes for our milk
mixture here to start boiling so now
what we want to do is add the cheese in
and oh by the way I diced the cheese
okay because I don't want to put it in
that big block because it won't melt
easily you could put it in that big
block
so let me turn this down back to medium
because we don't want the cheese to
scorch but in the meanwhile I want to be
back over to the noodle pot to show you
that the noodles are pretty much done so
I just want to show you that these
noodles are done when I picked it up
like that and I kind of pinched it in my
finger
they're not too soft but they're not
hard either like uncooked so it took
about ten minutes actually after the
water was bunny and I put it in it took
ten minutes to get it to the point I
want to stop it right away because I
don't want it to overcook and I'm gonna
take it over to the sink and pour it in
a colander
all right so most science to this right
just pouring it in there and people are
usually saying you want to pour some
cold water on that to make it stop
cooking and all that stuff we don't need
to do all that for this mac and cheese
because basically we're just finishing
up the cheese sauce and we're gonna add
this to our baking pan right so just
leave it there in the sink for a minute
warn people in your house so they don't
we'll throw your there dirty plates in
there right I always have to warn
somebody hey I've got something in the
sink
let's move back over to the stove and
check on our cheese sauce so here's the
cheese sauce you kind of want to keep
this on low so it doesn't get lumps or
and doesn't burn okay but it looks like
our cheese has melted pretty much in
this so I'm gonna go ahead and shut this
off this took a total of about seven
minutes to cook like this so now let's
move this over to the counter so we can
add it to the macaroni and to the baking
dish okay so I have this 9 by 13 by 2
pan and all I'm doing is putting our
cooked elbow macaroni in there
I didn't butter the dish or anything
it's not gonna stick because this is one
of those nonstick things so just gonna
spread it out and then we want to get
our cheese sauce while everything is
still warm and we're gonna go ahead and
pour the cheese sauce over this and then
we're gonna get it to the oven okay and
I've already preheated the oven on 350
degrees we're gonna bake this for only a
half hour I'm sure I get everything I
want to get anything that's burned on
the bottom
can you put that away I'm just gonna mix
it around well I'm not gonna put any
kind of breadcrumbs on the top because
I've tried it like that we don't like it
that's my oven telling me it's ready
okay we don't like it like that so I'm
just gonna go ahead and bake it this way
and it's gonna form a little crust over
it that's gonna be awesome enough
without the bread crumbs need backup off
of that so you can see the dish so there
we go half hour in the oven and when I
come back I'm gonna be showing you the
finished product
and here's our finished product off the
mac and cheese it took a half-hour in
the oven and it's a nice coating on the
top right there I'm waiting for it to
cool down for a little bit then I'm
gonna cut out the first slice and show
you guys how it looks okay here's that
first slice
well of course you know that mac and
cheese is not believing right but that's
why I didn't name this show the Belize
show or the Caribbean show I named it
the bear practice show very few
ingredients wonderful wonderful cheese
in mecca cheese and this is my little
viewer who asked me to make this menu
for him or her I think it's a girl
thank you so much for asking you know I
take your request very seriously and
basically if I don't know how to do it I
won't ask somebody and I learn how to do
it and put it out there so thank you so
much for watching for subscribing for
picking up the book and for just being a
support to me until I see you again